.TH "veejay" 1
.SH NAME
veejay - a visual (video) instrument and video sampler for GNU/Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B veejay [options] Videofile1 [Videofile2 ... VideofileN]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B veejay
can be used to manipulate video in a realtime environment i.e. 'VJ'
for visual performances or for (automated) interactive video installations.
It provides mechanisms for simple non-desctructive editing, loop-based
clip editing (video sampling) ,capturing from multiple streams, direct-to-disk
recording in various formats , mixing from multiple sources to one
and network streaming (both unicast and multicast in uncompressed video)
Also, it can communicate with other sound and/or video applications
using the Open Sound Control (or through an inhouse protocol called 'VIMS') 
Veejay uses Jack for transporting Audio (currently only output) but its support
is currently limited.     
.TP
.SH Supported video codecs
.TP
MJPEG (either jpeg 4:2:0 or jpeg 4:2:2), YUV 4:2:0 i420/yv12 AVI, Quasar DV codec (only I-frames), MPEG4 (only I-frames)
.TP
.SH Supported video output drivers
.TP
Matrox G400/G440/G550 users can specify an (optional) output driver that uses the DirectFB library. It enables the CRTC2 (secondary head) , displaying video independently of the first head through the TV-Out. 
.TP
.SH Audio
.TP
Veejay uses Jack , a low latency audio server, to transport (playback) audio in sync with video. This allows you to process veejay's audio output in another sound processing application.
.TP
.SH General Usage (How to work with veejay)
.TP
Veejay has a console- and a video window ; the console is used for displaying messages only. If the mouse is moved over to the video window, you can use the keyboard like a piano to play/manipulate the video.
.TP
You can start veejay with multiple files , video files and/or Mjpegtools' EditList files. Upon startup, veejay creates a new EditList in memory containing all the files you have loaded. As a result, all files will appear as a single large video file.Next you can start making selections (clips) of your EditList. These clips will be placed in so called 'clip banks' and they can be triggered for playback by pressing the F-keys (1 to 12). You can select a bank by pressing a number 1 to 9.
.TP
Note that if you change the EditList (for example , when deleting portions of your editlist) you should save your editlist as well as your cliplist.
.TP
You can select effects to put on your clips by pressing the cursor keys up and down, once you have found an effect you would like to use, press ENTER and it will be added to the current chain entry. The current chain entry can be changed with the PLUG and MINUS key on your numeric keyboard. Look at the KEYBINDS in this manual page to see what other possibilities you could have. 
.TP 
.SH Interoperability
.TP
Veejay can be used with PD (PureData) by using sendVIMS, a small commandline utility that translates PD's symbols to veejay and vice versa.Look at the REFERENCES to find out where to download this utility. Also, by using the OpenSoundControl veejay can be used with a great number of sound and video processing applications.Also veejay can stream video data to STDOUT (-o stdout -O3) in yuv4mpeg format, or stream uncompressed video over the network (uni - and multicast)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p/--portoffset <num>
TCP port offset for communication with clients like gveejay (default 3490)
.TP
.B \-h/--host
Start as client of another veejay session (default is server)
.TP
.B \-o/--outstream <filename>
write video in YCbCr (YUV 4:2:0) format to specified file. Use this with -O3.
If you use 'stdout' here, veejay will be silent and write yuv4mpeg streams to STDOUT
.TP
.B \-O/--output [012345]
specify video output 0 = SDL (default) 1 = DirectFB 2 = SDL and DirectFB 3 = YUV4MPEG stream , 4 = System V SHM, 5 = Silent (no visual output)
.TP
.B \-s/--size NxN
Scaled video dimensions for SDL video output
.TP
.B \-a/--audio [01]
Play audio 0 = off , 1 = on (default)
.TP
.B \-c/--synchronization [01]
Sync correction off/on (default on)
.TP
.B \-P/--preverse-pathnames
Do not 'canonicalise' pathnames in editlists
.TP
.B \-v/--verbose 
verbosity on/off    
.TP
.B \-t/--timer [012]
timer to use ( none, normal, rtc )
.TP
.B \-f/--fps <num>
Override framerate of video 
.TP
.B \-X/--no-default-tags
Do not create solid color tags at startup
.TP
.B \-x/--geometryx <num>
Geometry x offset for SDL video window
.TP
.B \-y/--geometryy <num>
Geometry y offset for SDL video window
.TP
.B \-l/--action-file <filename>
Action File to load at initialization
.TP
.B \-b/--bezerk
Bezerk mode, if enabled it allows you to change input channels on the fly (without restarting the clip)      
.TP
.B \-g/--gui
GUI mode, only usefull for embedding the SDL video window into another X Window. 
.TP
.B \-n/--no-color
Dont use colored text.
.TP
.B \-m/--sample-mode [01]
Specify which super sampling algorithm to use , 0 = best quality (default) , 1 = best performance  
.TP
.B \-F/--features
Show compiled in options
.TP
.B \-Y/--ycbcr [01]
Specify veejay to use either YUV 4:2:0 (0) or YUV 4:2:2 (1). By default,
veejay will try to autodetect the pixel format used. 
.TP
.B \-d/--dummy
Start veejay with no video files (dummy mode). By default it will play black video.
.TP
.B \-W/--width
Specify width of dummy video.
.TP
.B \-H/--height
Specify height of dummy video
.TP
.B \-R/--framerate
Specify framerate of dummy video
.TP
.B \-N [01]
Specify norm of dummy video (0=PAL, 1=NTSC)
.TP
.B \-M/--multicast-osc
Starts OSC receiver in multicast mode
.TP
.B \-V/--multicast-vims
Setup additional multicast frame sender / command receiver ( port offset +[3,4] )
.TP
.B \  /--map-from-file <num frames>
To reduce transfers between memory and disk, you can set a number
of frames to be cached in memory from file (only valid for rawDV and AVI)
Use smaller values for better performance (mapping several hundreds of
megabytes can become a problem)
.TP
.TP
.B \--lgb=<0-100>
For use with \-z/--zoom, use Gaussian blur filter (luma)
.TP
.B \--cgb=<0-100>
For use with \-z/--zoom, use Gaussian blur filter (chroma)
.TP
.B \--ls=<0-100>
For use with \-z/--zoom, use Sharpen filter (luma)
.TP
.B \--cs=<0-100>
For use with \-z/--zoom, use Sharpen filter (chroma)
.TP
.B \--chs=<h>
For use with \-z/--zoom, Chroma horizontal shifting 
.TP
.B \--cvs=<v>
For use with \-z/--zoom, Chroma vertical shifting
.B \-z/--zoom <num>
Use the software scaler (this affects output video). (Also see \-H and \-W)
Available modes are:
.RS
.TP
.B 1
Fast Bilinear (default)
.TP
.B 2
Bilinear
.TP
.B 3
Bicubic (good quality)
.TP
.B 4
Experimental
.TP
.B 5
Nearest Neighbour (bad quality)
.TP
.B 6
Area
.TP
.B 7
Luma bicubic / chroma bilinear 
.TP
.B 8
Gauss
.TP
.B 9
sincR
.TP
.B 10
Lanczos
.TP
.B 11
Natural bicubic spline
.TP


.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B veejay -u |less
Startup veejay and list all events (VIMS/OSC) and effect descriptions 
.TP
.B veejay -p 4000 ~/my_video1.avi
Startup veejay listening on port 4000 (use this to use multiple veejays)
.TP
.TP
.B veejay -d -W 352 -H 288 -R 25 -N 0
Startup veejay using dummy video at 25 frames per second, dimensions 352x288
and using PAL.
.TP
.B veejay movie1.avi -V 224.0.0.50 -p 5000 -n -v -L
Startup veejay, using multicast protocol on port 5000 , with autolooping
and no colored verbose output
.TP
.SH INTERFACE COMMANDS (STDIN)
When you are running veejay with a SDL window you can use keybindings for
realtime interaction. See 
.B KEYBINDINGS
for details.
.TP

.SH KEYBINDINGS
.TP
.B [Keypad *]
Set sample looptype
.TP
.B [Keypad -]
Decrease chain index pointer
.TP
.B [Keypad +]
Increase chain index pointer
.TP
.B [Keypad 1]
Goto start of sample
.TP
.B [Keypad 2]
Go back 25 frames 
.TP
.B [Keypad 3]
Goto end of sample
.TP
.B [Keypad 4]
Play backward
.TP
.B [Keypad 5]
Pause
.TP
.B [Keypad 6]
Play forward
.TP
.B [Keypad 7]
Goto previous frame
.TP
.B [Keypad 8]
Go forward 25 frames
.TP
.B [Keypad 9]
Goto next frame
.TP
.B [Keypad /]
Switch to Plain video playback mode (from Sample or Tag mode)
.TP
.B [LEFT BRACKET]
Set sample start
.TP
.B [RIGHT BRACKET]
Set sample end and create new sample
.TP
.B [ALT] + [LEFT BRACKET]
Set marker start
.TP
.B [ALT] + [LEFT BRACKET]
Set marker end and activate marker
.TP
.B [Backspace]
Delete current marker 
.TP
.B [a,s,d,f,g,h,j,k,l]
Set playback speed to 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, or 9
.TP
.B [ALT] + [a|s|d|f|g|h|j|k|l]
Set frame duplicator to 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 or 9
.TP
.B [1..9]
Set sample range 0-12, 12-24, 24-36 etc.
.TP
.B ALT + [1..9]
Set channel ID 1-9, depending on sample range
.TP
.B [F1..F12]
Select and play sample 1 .. 12
.TP
.B [DELETE]
Delete selected effect
.TP
.B [Home]
Print sample/tag information
.TP
.B [ESC]
Switch between Plain -> Tag or Sample playback mode
.TP
.B [CURSOR RIGHT]
Go up 5 positions in the effect list
.TP
.B [CURSOR LEFT]
Go back 5 positions in the effect list
.TP
.B [UP]
Go up 1 position in the effect list
.TP
.B [DOWN]
Go down 1 position in the effect list
.TP
.B [RETURN | ENTER]
Add selected effect from list to sample
.TP
.B [v]
Toggle sample's playlist
.TP
.B [-]
Decrease mixing channel ID
.TP
.B [=]
Increase mixing channel ID
.TP
.B SLASH
Toggle mixing source between Clips and Streams
.TP
.B [z]
Audio Fade in decrease (*)
.TP
.B [x]
Audio Fade in increase (*)
.TP
.B [b]
Toggle a selected effect on/off
.TP
.B [END]
Enable/Disable Effect Chain
.TP
.B [Left ALT] + [END]
Enable/Disable Video on selected Entry
.TP
.B [Right ALT] + [END]
Enable/Disable Audio on selected Entry
.TP
.B [LCTRL] + [END]
Enable/Disable Video on selected Entry
.TP
.B [RCTRL] + [END]
Enable/Disable Audio on selected Entry
.TP
.B [NUMLOCK]
Auto increment/decrement of a parameter-key
.TP
.B [n]
Decrease trimmer value of selected effect
.TP
.B [m]
Increase trimmer value of selected effect
.TP
.B [x]
Decrease audio volume (not functional)
.TP
.B [c]
Increase audio volume (not functional)
.TP
.B [0]
Capture frame to jpeg file
.TP
.B [PgUp]
Increase parameter 0 of selected effect
.TP
.B [PgDn]
Decrease parameter 0 of selected effect
.TP
.B [Keypad 0]
Decrease parameter 1 of selected effect
.TP
.B [Keypad .]
Increase parameter 1 of selected effect
.TP
.B [.]
Increase parameter 2 of selected effect
.TP
.B [,]
Decrease parameter 2 of selected effect
.TP
.B [QUOTE]
Increase parameter 3 of selected effect
.TP
.B [SEMICOLON]
Decrease parameter 3 of selected effect
.TP
.B [q]
Decrease parameter 4 of selected effect
.TP
.B [w]
Increase parameter 4 of selected effect
.TP
.B [e]
Decrease parameter 5 of selected effect
.TP
.B [r]
Increase parameter 5 of selected effect
.TP
.B [t]
Decrease parameter 6 of selected effect
.TP
.B [y]
Increase parameter 6 of selected effect
.TP
.B [u]
Decrease parameter 7 of selected effect
.TP
.B [i]
Increase parameter 7 of selected effect
.TP
.B ALT + B 
Take a snapshot of a video frame and put it in a seperate
buffer (used by some effects like Difference Overlay)
.TP
.B Left CTRL + Right CTRL + [Any key]
Take a snapshot of the effect chain and store as effect
template. Use SHIFT + [Any key] to apply the template
.SH REFERENCES
.TP
sendVIMS for PD: http://zwizwa.fartit.com/pd/sendVIMS/
.SH BUGS
see BUGS in the source package
.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Niels Elburg.
If you have questions, remarks or you just want to
contact the developers, the main mailing list for this
project is: 
.I veejay-users@lists.sourceforge.net
For more info see the website at
.I http://veejay.sourceforge.net
.I or http://veejay.dyne.org
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B veejay yuv2rawdv rawdv2yuv any2yuv sayVIMS 
