.TH "veejay" 1
.SH NAME
veejay - a visual (video) instrument and video sampler for GNU/Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B veejay [options] Videofile1 [Videofile2 ... VideofileN]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B veejay
Veejay is a visual instrument and realtime video sampler. It allos you
to "play" the video like you would play a Piano and it allows you to
record the resulting video directly to disk for immediate playback (video sampling).

Thus, Veejay can be operated live by using the keyboard (which is 100% user definable)
and remotely over network (both unicast and multicast) using an inhouse message
system that allows mapping of various protocols on top of it, including OSC.

Veejay is beeing developed in the hope it will be usefull for VJ's , media artists
theathers and other interested users that want to use Free Software for their
performances and/or video installations.

.TP
.SH Supported video codecs
.TP
MJPEG (either jpeg 4:2:0 or jpeg 4:2:2), YUV 4:2:0 i420/yv12 AVI, Quasar DV codec (only I-frames), MPEG4 (only I-frames)
.TP
.SH Supported video output drivers
.TP
OpenGL or SDL
.TP
.SH Audio
.TP
Not implemented yet.
.TP
.SH General Usage (How to work with veejay)
.TP
Use sayVIMS from veejay stable branch
.TP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p/--port <num>
TCP port offset for communication with clients like gveejay (default 3490)
.TP
.B \-d/--display [012]
specify video output 0 = None (default) 1 = SDL 2 = OpenGL
.TP
.B \-s/--size NxN
Scaled video dimensions for SDL video output
.TP
.B \-c/--synchronization [01]
Sync correction off/on (default on)
.TP
.B \-v/--verbose 
verbosity on/off    
.TP
.B \-t/--timer [012]
timer to use ( none, normal, rtc )
.TP
.B \-b/--bezerk
Bezerk mode, if enabled it allows you to change input channels on the fly (without restarting the clip)      
.TP
.B \-m/--memory [0-100]
Frame cache size in percentage of total system RAM 
.TP
.B \-j/--max_cache [0-100]
Maximum number of samples to cache 
.TP
.B \-P/--pixelformat [012]
Specify veejay to use either YUV 4:2:0 (0) , YUV 4:2:2 (1) or YUV 4:4:4 (2). By default,
veejay will try to autodetect the pixel format used. 
.TP
.B \-w/--width
Specify width of dummy video.
.TP
.B \-h/--height
Specify height of dummy video
.TP
.B \-f/--framerate
Specify framerate of dummy video
.TP
.B \-n/--norm [01]
Specify norm of dummy video (0=PAL, 1=NTSC). defaults to PAL
.TP
