.TH "veejay" 1
.SH NAME
veejay \- a visual video instrument and video sampler for GNU/Linux

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B veejay
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ Videofile1
.RI [ Videofile2
.IR ... ]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Veejay
is a visual instrument and real-time video sampler. It allows you to
play video like a musical instrument.

While playing, you can record the resulting video directly to disk. This is
called video sampling. Veejay keeps audio in sync and changes pitch when needed
during trickplay, such as slow playback, fast playback, reverse playback, and
looping. Audio is sent to JACK for possible further processing.

Veejay can be operated live using the keyboard, which is fully user-definable.
It can also be controlled remotely over the network using unicast or multicast.
Remote control is handled by VIMS, Veejay's Internal Message System, which can
map several protocols on top of it, including OSC.

Veejay is developed in the hope that it will be useful for VJs, media artists,
theatres, and other users who want to use Free Software for performances and
video installations.

.SH RUNNING MULTIPLE VEEJAYS: MAIN OUTPUT AND PREVIEW

Veejay can run multiple instances at the same time. A common setup is to run
one veejay as the main video output and another veejay as a smaller preview or
editing instance.

The main output instance is started with
.B --master
or
.BR -K .

The preview or editing instance is started with
.B --connect
or
.BR -C ,
followed by the address and port of the master veejay:

.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBveejay --connect 127.0.0.1:3490\fR
.fi
.RE

When both instances run on the same machine, they can share the same samplelist
file. Veejay watches the samplelist file for changes, so edits made by one
instance can be picked up by the other instance automatically.

Start the main output veejay:

.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBveejay -a 1 -v -n -l veejay-samplelist.sl --master -w 1920 -h 1080\fR
.fi
.RE

Start the preview or editing veejay:

.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBveejay -v -w 720 -h 480 -l veejay-samplelist.sl --connect 127.0.0.1:3490\fR
.fi
.RE

In this setup, the first veejay owns the main video output. The second veejay
can be used as a lower-resolution preview and control or editing instance.

When using Reloaded, connect Reloaded to the preview or editing veejay. Enable
.B Forward VIMS trickplay
to mirror playback and trickplay commands to the master output. Disable it when
you want to stay in editing mode without forwarding playback controls.

Samplelist changes are synchronized through the shared samplelist file. Playback
and trickplay commands are forwarded over the VIMS connection when forwarding is
enabled.

.SH SUPPORTED VIDEO CONTAINERS

.IP \(bu 2
AVI
.IP \(bu 2
QuickTime
.IP \(bu 2
DVVideo

.SH SUPPORTED VIDEO CODECS AND FORMATS

.IP \(bu 2
MJPEG AVI / QuickTime, fourcc:
.BR mjpg ,
.BR mjpb ,
.BR mjpa ,
.B jfif

.IP \(bu 2
Lossless JPEG AVI, fourcc:
.B ljpg

.IP \(bu 2
Quasar DV codec, NTSC/PAL, AVI / QuickTime, fourcc:
.BR dv ,
.BR dvhd ,
.BR dvp ,
.B dvcp

.IP \(bu 2
YUV4MPEG, chroma 4:2:0 JPEG/MPEG-2, chroma 4:2:2, AVI / Y4M

.IP \(bu 2
Motion PNG, fourcc:
.BR mpng ,
.B png

.IP \(bu 2
RAW YUV 4:2:2 planar JPEG/JFIF, sample range 0-255, 8 bit, 3 planes,
fourcc:
.BR vj22 ,
.B vj20

.IP \(bu 2
RAW YUV 4:2:2 planar Rec. 601, Y'CbCr, sample range 16-235 for Y and
16-240 for UV, 8 bit, 3 planes

.IP \(bu 2
MLZO, YUV 4:2:2 planar compressed with OberHumer's LZO real-time data
compression library, fourcc:
.B mlzo

.IP \(bu 2
FFmpeg RAW format

.SH CHROMA AND INTERNAL VIDEO FORMAT

Veejay converts all source video data to planar YUV 4:2:2 for internal
processing and playback.

Effects and filters that need full chroma resolution can use 4:4:4 chroma
upsampling internally. The chroma upsampling method can be selected with
.BR VEEJAY_SUPERSAMPLE_MODE .
The chroma downsampling method used when converting back from 4:4:4 to 4:2:2
can be selected with
.BR VEEJAY_SUBSAMPLE_MODE .

.SH AUDIO

Veejay uses JACK, a low-latency audio server, to transport audio in sync with
video. This allows you to process veejay's audio output in another sound
processing application.

.SH GENERAL USAGE

Veejay has a console and a video window.

.IP \(bu 2
The console is used for displaying messages only.

.IP \(bu 2
When the mouse is over the video window, you can use the keyboard like a piano
to play and manipulate the video.

.PP
You can start veejay with multiple video files and/or Mjpegtools EditList files.
Upon startup, veejay creates a new EditList in memory containing all files you
loaded. As a result, all files appear as one large video file.

You can then start making selections, called samples, from your EditList. These
samples are placed into slots in sample banks. They can be triggered for
continued playback or resumed playback by combining the F-keys, F1 to F12, with
SHIFT. You can select a sample bank by holding SHIFT and pressing a number from
1 to 9.

If you change the EditList, for example by deleting parts of it, you should save
both the editlist and the samplelist.

You can select effects for your samples by pressing the cursor keys up and down.
Once you find an effect you want to use, press ENTER to add it to the current
chain entry. The current chain entry can be changed with the PLUS and MINUS keys
on the numeric keyboard. See
.B KEYBINDINGS
for more possibilities.

.SH INTERACTIVE CAMERA/PROJECTION SYSTEM

You can use veejay to calibrate a camera, or another input source, against a
projector screen. This maps a physical position to veejay's projection.

Press CTRL-s to activate the projection/camera calibration setup. This renders a
graphical OSD on top of the video. Next, play the live input source so you can
find veejay's projection in the camera image. Set the points to the edges of the
screen and right-click.

Press CTRL-s again, or press the middle mouse button, to leave setup. Press
CTRL-i to enable transformation of the camera input. Press CTRL-p to bring the
projection screen to the front.

.SH INTEROPERABILITY

Using Open Sound Control, OSC, veejay can be used with many sound and video
processing applications.

Veejay can record video data to the YUV4MPEG format used by mjpegtools. It can
also stream uncompressed video over the network using unicast or multicast.

VIMS, Veejay's Internal Message System, provides remote control. With
.BR sayVIMS ,
a command-line utility, you can control almost all veejay functions on the fly,
including in headless setups. You can script performances or video installations
and connect them to external systems.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-v/--verbose
Enable verbose/debugging output. Default is off.

.TP
.B \-n/--no-color
Do not use coloured text in console output.

.TP
.B \-u/--dump-events
Dump veejay's VIMS, OSC, effect, and environment documentation to stdout.

.TP
.B \-B/--features
List compiled-in features and exit.

.TP
.B \--version
Print veejay version and exit.

.TP
.B \-?/--help
Print command-line help and exit.

.TP
.B \-D/--composite
Do not start with the camera/projection calibration viewport.

.TP
.B \-p/--port <num>
Set the TCP port used to accept and send VIMS messages. Default is 3490.

.TP
.B \-M/--multicast-osc <multicast address>
Start the OSC receiver in multicast mode.

.TP
.B \-T/--multicast-vims <multicast address>
Set up multicast VIMS. The multicast frame sender transmits on port offset + 3.
Commands are received on port offset + 4.

.TP
.B \-m/--memory <num>
Set maximum memory to use for cache, as a percentage of total system RAM.
Use 0 to disable. Valid range is 0-80. Default is 30.

.TP
.B \-j/--max_cache <num>
Divide cache memory over at most N samples. Valid range is 0-100. Default is 0.

.TP
.B \-Y/--yuv [0|1]
Force YCbCr mode. Use 0 for YUV 4:2:2 Rec. 601 or 1 for YUV 4:2:2 JPEG/JFIF.

.TP
.B \-t/--timer <num>
Select timer. Use 0 for none or 1 for the default timer. Default is 1.

.TP
.B \-P/--preserve-pathnames
Do not canonicalise pathnames in editlists.

.TP
.B \-e/--swap-range
Swap YUV range 0-255 with 16-235 on video files. This option enables range
swapping; it does not take an argument.

.TP
.B \-L/--auto-loop
Start with the default sample loop.

.TP
.B \-b/--bezerk
Enable bezerk mode. This allows you to change input channels on the fly without
restarting the samples.

.TP
.B \-K/--master
Start this veejay instance as the master or main video output. Other veejay
instances can connect to it with
.BR --connect .

.TP
.B \-C/--connect <ip address:port>
Connect this veejay instance to a master veejay. If no port is given, the
default VIMS port is used. This is typically used for a preview or editing
instance that forwards selected VIMS playback or trickplay commands to the main
video output.

.TP
.B \-l/--sample-file <filename>
Load a samplelist file at startup. The samplelist file stores your project,
including samples, FX chains, loop and play modes, the currently playing sample,
and sequencer information.

.TP
.B \-F/--action-file <filename>
Load an action file at startup. The action file stores custom keybindings,
custom bundles, available VIMS events, editlists, samplelists, streamlists, and
command-line options.

.TP
.B \-g/--clip-as-sample
Load every video file on the command line as a new sample.

.TP
.B \-a/--audio [0|1]
Enable or disable audio. Use 0 for off or 1 for on. Default is 1.

.TP
.B \--pace-correction <ms>
Set audio pace correction offset in milliseconds. The value must be positive.

.TP
.B \-c/--synchronization [0|1]
Disable or enable sync correction. Default is on.

.TP
.B \-G/--graphics-driver <num>
Alias for
.BR --output .
Select the video output driver.

.TP
.B \-O/--output [0..8]
Specify video output:
.RS
.IP 0 3
SDL, default
.IP 3 3
Headless, no video output
.IP 4 3
Y4M Stream 4:2:0, requires
.B --output-file
.IP 5 3
Vloopback device, native format, requires
.B --output-file
.IP 6 3
Y4M Stream 4:2:2, requires
.B --output-file
.IP 7 3
Vloopback device, YUV 4:2:0, requires
.B --output-file
.IP 8 3
Vloopback device, BGR, requires
.B --output-file
.RE

.TP
.B \-o/--output-file <file>
Write video output to file or device. This is used with
.BR -O/--output .

.TP
.B \-s/--size WxH
Set display dimensions for the SDL video window.

.TP
.B \-x/--geometry-x <num>
Set the top-left X offset for the SDL video window.

.TP
.B \-y/--geometry-y <num>
Set the top-left Y offset for the SDL video window.

.TP
.B \--borderless
Open the SDL video window without a title bar.

.TP
.B \--no-keyboard
Disable keyboard input for the SDL video window.

.TP
.B \--no-mouse
Disable mouse input for the SDL video window.

.TP
.B \--show-cursor
Show the mouse cursor in the SDL video window.

.TP
.B \-A/--capture-device <num>
Start with capture device
.BR <num> .
This replaces the older
.B --all
description.

.TP
.B \-d/--dummy
Start with no video files. This is dummy mode. By default, veejay plays black
frames.

.TP
.B \-Z/--load-generators <num>
Load all generator plugins as streams and start playing generator stream
.BR <num> .

.TP
.B \-W/--input-width <num>
Set input video width for dummy/capture input.

.TP
.B \-H/--input-height <num>
Set input video height for dummy/capture input.

.TP
.B \-f/--fps <num>
Override the default frame rate. By default, the frame rate is read from the
first loaded file. Using this option disables audio.

.TP
.B \-r/--audiorate <num>
Set audio rate. Default is 48 kHz.

.TP
.B \-I/--deinterlace
Deinterlace video if it is interlaced.

.TP
.B \-N/--norm <num>
Set video norm. Use 0 for PAL, 1 for NTSC, or 2 for SECAM. Default is PAL.

.TP
.B \-w/--output-width <num>
Set output video width for projection/output rendering.

.TP
.B \-h/--output-height <num>
Set output video height for projection/output rendering.

.TP
.B \--benchmark WxH
Run veejay benchmark using the given resolution.

.TP
.B \--qrcode-connection-info
Encode veejay's external IP address and port number into a QR code image. This
is available only when built with QR code support.

.TP
.B \-S/--scene-detection <threshold>
Create new samples based on scene detection threshold
.BR <threshold> .

.TP
.B \-X/--dynamic-fx-chain
Do not keep FX chain buffers in RAM. Use this option if you prefer dynamic
allocation instead. This is slower, but reserves less RAM.

.TP
.B \--split-screen
Load split-screen configuration.

.TP
.B \--fx-custom-default-values
Read FX custom default values from
.B ~/.veejay/livido
and
.BR ~/.veejay/frei0r .

.TP
.B \-q/--quit
Quit at the end of the file.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.SS Video and rendering

.TP
.B SDL_VIDEO_HWACCEL
Set to 1 to use SDL video hardware acceleration. Default is on.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_PERFORMANCE
Set rendering performance mode. Valid values are
.B quality
and
.BR fastest .
Default is
.BR fastest .

.TP
.B VEEJAY_AUTO_SCALE_PIXELS
Set to 1 to automatically convert between CCIR 601 and JPEG pixel ranges. This
scales YUV values from 0-255 to YCbCr 16-235/16-240 and vice versa. Use 0 to
disable this behaviour.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_INTERPOLATE_CHROMA
Set to 1 to interpolate chroma samples when scaling. Default is 0.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_ORIGINAL_FRAME
Force use of the original frame in composition.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_SUBSAMPLE_MODE
Select the chroma subsampling method used when converting from 4:4:4 to 4:2:2.
Valid values are
.BR drop ,
.BR average ,
.BR bilinear ,
and
.BR mitchell .
Default is
.BR drop .

.TP
.B VEEJAY_SUPERSAMPLE_MODE
Select the chroma supersampling method used when converting from 4:2:2 to 4:4:4.
Valid values are
.B dup
and
.BR mitchell .
Default is
.BR dup .

.TP
.B VEEJAY_BG_AUTO_HISTOGRAM_EQ
Enable automatic histogram equalization for background subtraction.

.SS Display and user interface

.TP
.B VEEJAY_FULLSCREEN
Set fullscreen mode. Use 1 for fullscreen or 0 for windowed mode.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_VIDEO_POSITION
Specify the position of the video window inside
.BR VEEJAY_DESKTOP_GEOMETRY .

.TP
.B VEEJAY_VIDEO_SIZE
Specify the size of the video window inside
.BR VEEJAY_DESKTOP_GEOMETRY .

.TP
.B VEEJAY_DESKTOP_GEOMETRY
Specify desktop geometry so veejay can position the video window. This is useful
for TwinView or one large desktop setups.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_SDL_DRIVER
Tell SDL which video driver to use.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_SDL_HINT_RENDER_DRIVER
Set
.B SDL_HINT_RENDER_DRIVER
before creating the SDL renderer, for example
.BR opengl .

.TP
.B VEEJAY_SDL_KEY_REPEAT_DELAY
Set key repeat delay in milliseconds.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_SDL_KEY_REPEAT_INTERVAL
Set the interval, in milliseconds, at which a pressed key repeats.

.TP
.B VJ_SDL_YUV_MODE
Select SDL YUV conversion mode. Valid values are
.BR jpeg ,
.BR auto ,
.BR bt601 ,
and
.BR bt709 .

.SS System, decoding, and streaming

.TP
.B VEEJAY_MAX_FILESIZE
Set the maximum file size in bytes. This option influences the maximum size of
recorded AVI files and other file processing limits.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_NUM_DECODE_THREADS
Set the number of avcodec/MJPEG decode threads to spawn.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_MULTITHREAD_TASKS
Set the number of parallel pixel-processing tasks. By default, veejay uses the
available CPU cores when multi-threaded processing is enabled.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_AV_LOG
Set the libavcodec/libav logging level.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_LOG_NET_IO
Enable network I/O logging when set.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_MMAP_PER_FILE
Set mmap allocation size per loaded video file, in kilobytes.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_VLOOPBACK_PIXELFORMAT
Set the pixel format used for vloopback streaming.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_PLAYBACK_CACHE
Set sample cache size in MB. By default, veejay can consume up to 30% of total
RAM to cache video samples.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_RUN_MODE
Set this to
.B CLASSIC
to start in low-resolution mode.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_SHMID
Set SHMID by environment variable for slave mode.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_PAUSE_EVERYTHING
Set pause behaviour. Use 0 to pause only the top sample and keep playing the FX
chain. Use 1 to pause everything. Default is 1.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_MEMSET_METHOD
Set the preferred memset method. A list of memset methods is printed when an
invalid value is given.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_MEMCPY_METHOD
Set the preferred memcpy method. A list of memcpy methods is printed when an
invalid value is given. Set to
.B "glibc memcpy()"
if you experience random crashes.

.SS V4L2 capture

.TP
.B VEEJAY_V4L2_GREYSCALE_ONLY
Use 1 to capture in greyscale only.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_V4L2_PREFER_JPEG
Use 1 to set the preferred capture format to MJPEG.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_V4L2_CAPTURE_METHOD
Set the capture method. Use 0 for read/write or 1 for memory mapping.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_V4L2_MAX_RETRIES
Set the maximum number of attempts before giving up on the capture device.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_V4L2_NO_THREADING
Use 1 to query frames in the main loop instead of using a separate capture
thread.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE EXAMPLES

.TP
.B VEEJAY_DESKTOP_GEOMETRY=2624x1024+1600x0
Display the video window on the second screen. In this example, the first screen
is 1600 pixels wide. Specify this together with
.B VEEJAY_VIDEO_SIZE
to create a borderless video window on one monitor in a TwinView or one large
desktop setup.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_VIDEO_SIZE=1024x768
Set the second screen size to 1024x768. The video window will appear fullscreen
on that screen.

.TP
.B VEEJAY_DEFAULT_CHANNEL
Set the default Video4Linux channel ID for veejay.

.SH HOME DIRECTORY

Veejay creates a new directory in your home directory:

.PP
.RS
.nf
\fB$HOME/.veejay\fR
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B .veejay/recovery
If veejay stops unexpectedly, it will try to save your samplelist and editlist
before aborting. Most of the time, veejay will be able to recover fully.

.TP
.B .veejay/plugins.cfg
To load frei0r or FreeFrame plugins, set the paths to the
.B .so
files in this configuration file. Only single-channel plugins are supported.

.SH INTERFACE COMMANDS

When you are running veejay with an SDL window, you can use keybindings for
real-time interaction. See
.B KEYBINDINGS
for details.

.SH KEYBINDINGS

.TP
.B [Keypad *]
Switch loop mode between Normal and Ping Pong.

.TP
.B [SHIFT] + [Keypad *]
Switch random loop mode between Random and Play once.

.TP
.B [Keypad 1]
Go to start of sample.

.TP
.B [Keypad 2]
Go back 25 frames.

.TP
.B [Keypad 3]
Go to end of sample.

.TP
.B [Keypad 4]
Play backward.

.TP
.B [Keypad 5]
Pause.

.TP
.B [SHIFT] + [Keypad 5]
Stop playback of all samples.

.TP
.B [Keypad 6]
Play forward.

.TP
.B [Keypad 7]
Go to previous frame.

.TP
.B [Keypad 8]
Go forward 25 frames.

.TP
.B [Keypad 9]
Go to next frame.

.TP
.B [Keypad /]
Switch to Plain video playback mode from Sample or Tag mode.

.TP
.B [z]
Pause and hold the FX chain. This freezes the current video state.

.TP
.B [LEFT BRACKET]
Set sample start.

.TP
.B [RIGHT BRACKET]
Set sample end and create a new sample.

.TP
.B [ALT] + [LEFT BRACKET]
Set marker start.

.TP
.B [ALT] + [RIGHT BRACKET]
Set marker end and activate marker.

.TP
.B [Backspace]
Delete current marker.

.TP
.B [a,s,d,f,g,h,j,k,l]
Set playback speed to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.

.TP
.B [ALT] + [a|s|d|f|g|h|j|k|l]
Adjust frame duplicator to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9. Missing frames are
interpolated.

.TP
.B [SHIFT] + [a,s,d,f,g,h,j,k,l]
Set current mixing channel speed to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.

.TP
.B [SHIFT] + [ALT] + [a|s|d|f|g|h|j|k|l]
Adjust current mixing channel frame duplicator to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or
9. Missing frames are interpolated.

.TP
.B [0..9]
Quick jump into the current sample or stream position: 0%, 10%, 20%, 30%, and
so on up to 90%.

.TP
.B [SHIFT] + [1..9]
Select sample bank range: 0-12, 12-24, 24-36, and so on.

.TP
.B [ALT] + [1..9]
Change channel ID 1-9, depending on sample range.

.TP
.B [F1..F12]
Select and play sample bank 1 to 12.

.TP
.B [SHIFT] + [F1..F12]
Select and resume sample bank 1 to 12.

.TP
.B [ESC]
Switch between Sample and Stream playback mode.

.TP
.B [SHIFT] + [t]
Toggle transitions between samples.

.TP
.B [RETURN | ENTER]
Add the selected effect from the list to the sample effect chain.

.TP
.B [SHIFT] + [RETURN | ENTER]
Add the selected effect from the list to the sample effect chain in disabled
state.

.TP
.B [DELETE]
Delete effect from selected chain entry.

.TP
.B [UP]
Move up one position in the effect list.

.TP
.B [DOWN]
Move down one position in the effect list.

.TP
.B [Keypad -]
Decrease selected effect chain entry.

.TP
.B [Keypad +]
Increase selected effect chain entry.

.TP
.B [-]
Decrease mixing channel ID.

.TP
.B [=]
Increase mixing channel ID.

.TP
.B [/]
Toggle mixing source between Clips and Streams.

.TP
.B [END]
Enable or disable the effect chain.

.TP
.B [ALT] + [END]
Enable or disable the effect on the current entry.

.TP
.B [PgUp]
Increase parameter 0 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [PgDn]
Decrease parameter 0 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [Keypad 0]
Decrease parameter 1 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [Keypad .]
Increase parameter 1 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [.]
Increase parameter 2 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [,]
Decrease parameter 2 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [q]
Decrease parameter 3 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [w]
Increase parameter 3 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [e]
Decrease parameter 4 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [r]
Increase parameter 4 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [t]
Decrease parameter 5 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [y]
Increase parameter 5 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [u]
Decrease parameter 6 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [i]
Increase parameter 6 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [o]
Decrease parameter 7 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [p]
Increase parameter 7 of the selected effect.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [Arrow keys]
Move the currently selected projection/camera calibration point. LEFT and RIGHT
move the point horizontally. UP and DOWN move the point vertically.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [a]
Enable or disable viewport rendering.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [c]
Show or hide the copyright information.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [d]
Toggle rendering of single-source FX on underlying samples.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [e]
Start automatic recording and play the result when recording finishes.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [f]
Toggle fullscreen or windowed mode.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [h]
Toggle OSD help for camera/projector setup.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [i]
Toggle the currently playing sample or stream as the input source to be
transformed.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [m]
Mute or unmute audio.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [o]
Toggle OSD help for general status messages and mouse coordinates.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [p]
Focus on the front projection, primary output, or back projection, secondary
input.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [r]
Start recording.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [s]
Show or hide the interactive camera/projector calibration setup.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [t]
Stop recording.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [v]
Toggle grayscale or colour mode.

.TP
.B [ALT] + [b]
Use the current frame as the background or mask frame for the current effect.
This is used by effects that need a captured reference frame, such as difference
or background-subtraction effects.

.TP
.B [n]
Decrease colour vibrance.

.TP
.B [m]
Increase colour vibrance.

.TP
.B [Pause]
Hold the current frame temporarily and resume playback after the configured hold
duration.

.TP
.B [Home]
Print sample or tag information.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [Home]
Toggle on-screen logging, if enabled.

.TP
.B [SHIFT] + [Spacebar]
Start the keystroke recorder. The keystroke recorder records most received VIMS
messages and plays them back in order from the position where they were
recorded. Instead of using the keyboard, you can also use Reloaded and record
button presses. Some VIMS messages are excluded from the keystroke recorder for
safety reasons.

.TP
.B [Spacebar]
Replay recorded VIMS messages. The keystroke recorder jumps to the starting
position and replays all recorded VIMS messages.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [Spacebar]
Clear recorded keystrokes. This clears all VIMS messages in the currently
selected macro slot.

.TP
.B [Spacebar] with CAPS LOCK on
Play the next sample in the queue, in the current playing direction.

.TP
.B [CTRL] + [F1-F12]
Select a slot to record keystrokes to. The default slot is 0. Use this if you
want to record multiple keystroke sequences. You can switch slots during
keystroke playback.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
.B veejay -u | less
Start veejay and list all events, VIMS/OSC commands, and effect descriptions.

.TP
.B veejay -p 4000 ~/my_video1.avi
Start veejay listening on port 4000. Use this to run multiple veejay instances.

.TP
.B veejay -d -W 352 -H 288 -N 0 -a 0
Start veejay in dummy mode, using 352x288 PAL video and no audio.

.TP
.B veejay movie1.avi -M 224.0.0.50 -p 5000 -n -v
Start veejay using OSC multicast on port 5000, with verbose output and no
coloured console text.

.TP
.B veejay -g movie1.avi movie2.avi movie3.avi --output 5 --output-file /dev/video1
Start veejay headless and load each given clip as a sample. The video output is
written to
.BR /dev/video1 ,
a video loopback device.

.IP
You need the
.B v4l2loopback
kernel module to set up the video loopback device. Only video is written to the
loopback device. Audio, if any, still goes to JACK.

.TP
.B veejay movie1.avi --output 4 --output-file /tmp/video-yuv4mpeg.pipe
Start veejay headless and write YUV4MPEG video to a named FIFO pipe. Only video
is written to the pipe. Audio, if any, still goes to JACK. Because of how pipes
work, audio and video can lose sync.

.TP
.B veejay -a 1 -v -n -l veejay-samplelist.sl --master -w 1920 -h 1080
Start veejay as the main video output at 1920x1080.

.TP
.B veejay -v -w 720 -h 480 -l veejay-samplelist.sl --connect 127.0.0.1:3490
Start a second veejay as a lower-resolution preview or editing instance and
connect it to the master output.

.IP
When both instances use the same samplelist file, local samplelist changes are
picked up through veejay's samplelist watcher. In Reloaded, connect to the
preview or editing veejay and enable
.B Forward VIMS trickplay
to mirror playback controls to the master output.

.SH REFERENCES

.I http://veejayhq.net

.SH BUGS

See
.I https://github.com/game-stop/veejay/issues

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR veejay ,
.BR sayVIMS ,
.B reloaded