.TH GVEEJAY-RELOADED 1 "July 2026" "Veejay" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
Gveejay Reloaded \- graphical live-performance interface for Veejay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gveejay-reloaded
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B reloaded
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B gveejay
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Gveejay Reloaded
is the GTK3 graphical interface for Veejay. It is a client for a running
Veejay server and can connect to, control, and disconnect from that server
while Veejay continues to run.
.PP
Reloaded is intended for live video performance, sample-bank operation,
stream control, four-bank sequence editing, tracker-style VIMS pattern
editing, effect-chain editing, FX animation, MIDI learning, VIMS messaging,
preview management, recording, audio beat detection, external audio
synchronisation, and per-sample audio routing.
.PP
The interface is status-driven. Many controls are refreshed from backend status
messages. When a button, list entry, toggle, slider, or curve returns to a
backend value, the backend state is normally authoritative.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -a , " --auto-connect"
Auto-connect to locally running Veejay instances.
.TP
.BR -b , " --beta"
Enable beta UI features.
.TP
.BR -g , " --geometry " \fIX,Y\fR
Place the main window at screen position \fIX,Y\fR.
.TP
.BR -h , " --host " \fIHOST\fR
Connect to the given Veejay host. The default host is localhost.
.TP
.BR -L , " --lowband"
Use a low-bandwidth mode. This disables image loading in the sample bank.
.TP
.BR -m , " --midi " \fIFILE\fR
Load a MIDI configuration file.
.TP
.BR -n , " --no-color"
Disable coloured text in console logs.
.TP
.BR -p , " --port " \fIPORT\fR
Connect to the given Veejay port. The default is the compiled default port,
typically 3490.
.TP
.BR -P , " --preview " \fIN\fR
Start with preview enabled. Accepted values are 1 for full size, 2 for half
size, 3 for quarter size, and 4 for one eighth size.
.TP
.BR --sample-pages " " \fIN\fR
Allocate \fIN\fR sample-bank pages. The default is 12 pages. The maximum is
512 pages.
.TP
.BR -v , " --verbose"
Enable more verbose logging.
.TP
.BR -V , " --version"
Print the program version, linked libveejaycore version, and data directory,
then exit.
.TP
.BR -X , " --tracks " \fIN\fR
Set the number of extra multitrack slots after track 0. The default is 3
extra slots, for 4 tracks in total. Accepted values run from 0 through one
less than the compiled maximum track count.
.TP
.BR -t , " --theme " \fIFILE\fR
Load a CSS stylesheet. Use \fBsystem\fR to use the system default theme.
.TP
.BR -S , " --small-as-possible"
Create the smallest possible UI layout.
.TP
.BR -f , " --faster-ui"
Hide unused FX parameter sliders instead of disabling them. This reduces GTK
CPU usage on GTK 3.22.30 and newer builds. This option is available only when
Reloaded was built against a GTK version that supports it.
.SH USER INTERFACE OVERVIEW
The main window is arranged around a live preview, transport controls, a
sample bank, the sequence play grid, effect controls, audio controls, status
indicators, and several notebook panels. The exact panel visibility depends on
the current play mode, selected sample or stream, backend status, compile-time
features, and command-line layout options.
.PP
The top-level menus expose file loading and saving, sample actions, stream
creation, MIDI learning, preferences, video settings, image calibration, VIMS
bundles, help, bug reporting, and application exit.
.PP
The status bar and console logs are part of the UI contract. Refresh, reset,
screenshot, background-mask, beat-detector, audio-sync, sequence-bank, and
VIMS actions should report when the click landed. If the visible UI appears
unchanged after an action, check the status bar and backend log first.
.SH CONNECTION AND PREVIEW
Reloaded can connect to a local or remote Veejay server by host and port. It
can also auto-connect to locally running instances when requested.
.PP
Preview can be enabled at startup with \fB--preview\fR or toggled from the UI.
Preview quality uses the levels full, half, quarter, and one eighth. The
preview panel also exposes greyscale and alpha-only preview modes, preview
speed, preview scale, and preview dimensions where available.
.PP
In multitrack mode, preview toggling is routed through the multitrack preview
manager so the visible preview reflects the selected track and master track.
.SH TRANSPORT AND TIMELINE
The transport controls provide forward playback, backward playback, stop,
previous and next frame, previous and next second, and jump-to-start or
jump-to-end actions.
.PP
The timeline and marker area use local frame indices. Selection in/out markers
are inclusive: a marker from 0 to 20 covers frames 0 through 20.
.TP
.B Left mouse button on the playhead triangle
Move or drag the playhead.
.TP
.B Left mouse button on the track
Set or drag the IN point.
.TP
.B Right mouse button on the track
Set or drag the OUT point.
.TP
.B Middle mouse button inside a selection
Enter bound scratch mode. The selection moves as a rigid block; wheel input
resizes the marker while the scratch box is active. Middle-click again to
leave the mode.
.TP
.B Double left click
Clear the current local selection.
.TP
.B Mouse wheel
Move the playhead by the default frame step. Wheel input is ignored while a
mouse button is physically held.
.TP
.B Ctrl + mouse wheel
Move the playhead by about one second.
.TP
.B Shift + mouse wheel
Move the playhead by about two seconds.
.PP
The speed slider controls playback speed. The slow-motion slider divides the
current frame rate by the selected multiplier. Ctrl-clicking these sliders
resets them to neutral.
.SH SAMPLE BANK
The sample bank provides quick access to samples and streams. Each page has
12 slots. The grid expands to use the available area, keeps the cells square,
and may show several consecutive pages at once.
.TP
.B Single left click
Select the sample or stream in the slot without starting playback. The
selection is also used by actions that operate on a selected source.
.TP
.B Double left click or Enter
Start playing the selected sample or stream.
.TP
.B Shift + left click or Shift + Enter
Use the selected sample or stream as the mixing source for the currently
selected FX chain entry.
.TP
.B Cursor keys
Move the slot selection. Home and End select the first and last slot on the
current page.
.TP
.B Page Up and Page Down
Move one sample-bank page backward or forward.
.TP
.B Mouse wheel
Move backward or forward by the number of pages currently visible in the
resizable grid.
.PP
The page selector and page header change the current page. The default number
of allocated pages is 12 and the maximum is 512. In low-bandwidth mode,
thumbnail images are not loaded, but slot selection and playback remain
available.
.SH SAMPLE AND STREAM PANELS
The sample panel shows sample title, start and end positions, playback speed,
slow-motion multiplier, hold-frame controls, sample audio volume, transitions,
transition shape, transition length, loop stop, stream buffering links, and
offline recording length.
.PP
The stream panel shows stream timecode, duration, codec information, recording
options, transition settings, camera controls, video-device controls, solid
stream controls, generator parameters, and stream recording progress when the
selected source supports those controls.
.PP
Live capture controls include brightness, contrast, hue, saturation, gamma,
gain, RGB balance, automatic white balance, sharpness, backlight compensation,
automatic gain, automatic hue, temperature, flips, exposure, black level, and
whiteness. Unsupported camera controls may be hidden or insensitive.
.SH SEQUENCE EDITOR
The Sequence page provides four banks of one hundred slots arranged as four
10 by 10 grids. A slot can contain a sample or stream. Slot colour identifies
the source type and the source id is printed in the cell.
.PP
The selected bank, active playback bank, and queued bank are separate states.
The active bank has the active outline, a queued bank has the queue outline,
the current playing slot is highlighted, and selected cells have a selection
outline.
.PP
Pattern markers distinguish their scope. A cyan upper-left corner marks a
source pattern that follows the sample or stream wherever it is used. A
magenta upper-right corner marks a cell overlay that belongs only to that
sequence slot. An amber dot marks a Hold Frame event. Larger cells also show
\fBS\fR, \fBC\fR, or \fBS+C\fR. A bank header with a complete sequence
pattern shows \fBSEQ\fR or \fBSEQ H\fR when it includes Hold Frame.
.SS BANK PLAYBACK AND QUEUEING
.TP
.B Play Grid
Start or stop playback of the checked sequence-bank chain. Playback begins
with the active bank and repeats the checked populated banks.
.TP
.B Wait End
When disabled, selecting another bank switches immediately. When enabled
during Play Grid playback, selecting a populated non-active bank queues it
until the current bank completes. Selecting another populated bank replaces
the queue. Selecting the queued bank again cancels it. Empty banks cannot be
queued.
.TP
.B B1 through B4
Check a bank to include it in Play Grid and select it for editing. The active
bank remains checked. When Play Grid is stopped, selecting a populated bank
starts it immediately.
.TP
.B Left click a bank header
Select that bank and apply the same immediate-switch or Wait End queueing
rules as the bank controls. Right-clicking the header opens the bank menu.
.TP
.B Clear
Erase every slot in the selected bank. Other banks are unchanged. Clearing a
queued bank also cancels that queue.
.TP
.B Delete
Remove the selected non-active bank from the checked playback chain without
erasing its slots. The active bank cannot be removed. Removing the queued bank
cancels the queue.
.TP
.B Copy and Paste
Copy the complete selected bank and replace another selected bank with that
copy.
.TP
.B Refresh
Reload all four banks and their checked, selected, active, playing, and queued
state from the backend.
.SS SLOT EDITING
.TP
.B Left click or left drag
Select one cell or a path of cells in the selected bank.
.TP
.B Ctrl + left click or drag
Toggle cells in the current selection.
.TP
.B Left click an empty slot
Assign the currently selected sample or stream to that slot. This works in
inactive banks as well, so another bank can be edited while Play Grid is
running.
.TP
.B Shift + left click a populated slot
Delete that slot, including its cell-specific VIMS pattern overlay.
.TP
.B Alt + drag a populated slot
Move or swap it with another slot in the same bank.
.TP
.B Right click a slot or selection
Open the slot menu. It provides assign, delete, copy, cut, paste,
copy-selected-to-bank, whole-bank copy and paste, clear-bank, and refresh
operations.
.TP
.B Right click a bank header
Open the bank-only copy, paste, clear, and refresh menu.
.PP
Copying or cutting selected sequence cells also copies their attached
cell-specific VIMS pattern overlays. Pasting the cells restores those overlays
at the corresponding destination offsets. Source patterns remain attached to
the underlying samples or streams and are not duplicated as cell overlays.
.SS SEQUENCE KEYBOARD CONTROLS
.TP
.B Cursor keys
Move the selected cell.
.TP
.B Ctrl + cursor keys
Extend the selected path in the arrow direction.
.TP
.B Alt + 1 through Alt + 4
Select sequence bank 1 through 4.
.TP
.B Delete or Backspace
Delete the selected populated cell or populated selection.
.TP
.B Enter
Assign the currently selected sample or stream when the selected slot is
empty. On a populated slot, collapse the selection without replacing it.
.TP
.B Ctrl + C, Ctrl + X, Ctrl + V
Copy, cut, or paste selected cells.
.TP
.B Ctrl + Shift + C, Ctrl + Shift + V
Copy or paste a complete sequence bank.
.SS SEQUENCE RECORDING
The recording row below the grids starts Play Grid and records its output to a
new sample. Stopping sequence recording does not stop Play Grid; playback must
be stopped separately. The progress control reports the current recording
progress.
.SH VIMS PATTERN EDITOR
The Pattern page is a tracker-style editor for frame-accurate VIMS automation.
Each row represents a source frame and contains eight event tracks, \fBV1\fR
through \fBV8\fR. Events on the same row execute from V1 to V8.
.PP
Patterns can be attached to an individual sequence slot, a sample, a stream,
or a complete sequence bank. During sequence playback Reloaded can run the
source pattern, the current slot pattern, and the whole-bank pattern together.
Outside Play Grid, the selected sample or stream pattern follows that source.
.SS DISPLAY AND TARGETS
The target line identifies the current bank, slot, sample, stream, or
whole-bank target. It also reports the available frame count, edit step,
pattern loop, and current learning policy.
.PP
Common commands use compact labels such as \fBHOLD\fR, \fBSPEED\fR,
\fBSLOW\fR, \fBFX\fR, \fBBEAT\fR, \fBSYNC\fR, and \fBMIX\fR. Other allowed
commands are abbreviated from the VIMS descriptions advertised by the
backend. A cell tooltip shows the VIMS id, backend description, and complete
raw command.
.TP
.B Step
Display and edit every Nth frame. For example, Step 4 shows frames 0, 4, 8,
12, and so on. Insert, pull, cursor advancement, and learned-event advancement
use the same step.
.PP
An orange marker indicates events hidden between two displayed rows by the
current Step value. Right-click the marker to reveal the hidden frame or
quantize its events to a visible row.
.SS PATTERN LOOP
.TP
.B Loop
Enable or disable the stored pattern loop for the current target.
.TP
.B Loop Sel
Set and enable the loop from the selected row range, or from the current row
when no block is selected.
.TP
.B No Loop
Remove the stored loop range.
.PP
The pattern loop repeats VIMS events over the selected frame range. It does
not change the media loop mode or loop the video itself.
.SS EVENT TRACKS
The V1 through V8 track switches mute or enable individual event tracks.
Ctrl-click a track switch to solo it. Shift-click a track switch to enable all
tracks. Muted tracks remain stored but do not fire.
.SS LEARNING VIMS
Enable \fBCapture\fR to learn user-triggered, pattern-safe VIMS commands at
the current pattern position. Supported buttons, toggles, spin controls,
sliders, transport controls, FX controls, audio controls, and other UI actions
are captured whether they use a single-argument or formatted VIMS sender.
The pattern safety filter rejects the reserved VIMS range 400 through 499,
query and readback commands, sequencer control commands, macro and bundle
automation, source or play-mode switches, sample and stream lifecycle actions,
timeline or project-structure edits, recording and calibration commands,
FX-chain structure and keyframe edits, and global UI or engine configuration.
Rejected commands are reported in the log.
.PP
The learning policy chooses where each captured command is placed:
.TP
.B Column lock
Keep using the selected V track. If that cell contains a different VIMS id,
search downward for the next empty cell or matching id, then advance down the
same track.
.TP
.B Next free
Use the first empty track on the current row, then continue on the next row
when all eight tracks are occupied.
.TP
.B Replace match
Replace the same VIMS id on the current row. When no match exists, use the
first empty track, then the selected track.
.TP
.B Overwrite
Replace the selected cell and advance down the selected track.
.TP
.B Layer
Advance across V1 through V8 and wrap to V1 on the next row.
.TP
.B Follow
Follow the live playback row. While Capture is active, learned events control
the edit cursor so repeated slider and button actions are placed according to
the selected learning policy.
.SS EDITING COMMANDS
Double-click a cell, press \fBF2\fR or \fBEnter\fR, or begin typing a numeric
VIMS id to open the inline command editor. Commands use the normal
\fIselector:arguments;\fR syntax and one command is stored per cell.
.TP
.B Copy, Cut, and Paste
Operate on the selected rectangular block. Paste mode can be
\fBReplace\fR, \fBMerge\fR, or \fBInsert\fR.
.TP
.B Ins
Insert one stepped row and move later events forward.
.TP
.B Pull
Delete one stepped row and pull later events backward.
.TP
.B Del
Clear the current event or selected block without moving later rows.
.TP
.B Clear Row
Clear all eight tracks on the current row.
.TP
.B Clear Pattern
Clear the complete pattern for the current target.
.TP
.B Undo and Redo
Restore or reapply pattern edits. The editor keeps up to 64 snapshots for the
current target and resets that history when the target changes or is reloaded.
.SS PATTERN KEYBOARD CONTROLS
.TP
.B Cursor keys
Move by one displayed row or one event track. Shift extends the block
selection.
.TP
.B Page Up, Page Down, Home, End
Move through the pattern. Shift extends the selection.
.TP
.B Tab and Shift + Tab
Move between V1 through V8.
.TP
.B Insert
Insert one stepped row.
.TP
.B Delete or Backspace
Clear the current event or selected block.
.TP
.B Shift + Delete
Delete one stepped row and pull later events backward.
.TP
.B Ctrl + C, Ctrl + X, Ctrl + V
Copy, cut, or paste the selected block.
.TP
.B Ctrl + Z, Ctrl + Shift + Z, Ctrl + Y
Undo or redo.
.TP
.B Ctrl + L, Ctrl + Shift + L
Set the pattern loop from the selection, or clear the loop.
.TP
.B Ctrl + Enter
Seek the current source to the selected pattern row.
.TP
.B Shift + Enter
Seek to the selected row and start forward playback.
.TP
.B Escape
Cancel inline editing or clear the current block selection.
.SS HISTORY, PLAYBACK, AND PERSISTENCE
The VIMS History lists pattern-safe commands newest first. Repeated
consecutive commands are collapsed into one row with a use count. Drag a row
onto a visible V1 through V8 cell, or double-click it or press Enter to place
it at the current Pattern cursor. Right-click a history row to copy its raw
command or clear the local history.
.PP
The editor follows forward and reverse playback and handles seeks without
replaying the complete skipped range.
.PP
Pattern changes are automatically serialised and stored through the backend.
The document includes sequence-cell patterns, whole-bank patterns, sample and
stream patterns, enabled tracks, learning policy, paste mode, and loop ranges.
It is reloaded when Reloaded reconnects or refreshes the sequence state.
.PP
The Sequence editor mirrors Pattern state with source and cell corner markers,
an amber Hold Frame dot, and \fBS\fR, \fBC\fR, and \fBS+C\fR labels where
space permits. Complete bank patterns show \fBSEQ\fR or \fBSEQ H\fR badges.
Automated slots therefore remain visible even when the Pattern page is not
open.
.SH EFFECTS AND FX CHAIN
The FX panel exposes the current effect chain and four effect lists: the main
image/video list, mixing effects, Alpha / Matte effects, and the user-managed
Favourites list. The text filter applies to the normal effect lists.
.SS ADDING AND ORGANISING EFFECTS
.TP
.B Double click an effect
Insert the effect into the currently selected chain entry and enable it.
.TP
.B Shift + double click
Insert the effect disabled.
.TP
.B Ctrl + double click
Insert the effect into the current chain entry of the source selected in the
sample bank instead of the currently playing source.
.TP
.B Ctrl + Shift + left click
Add the clicked effect to Favourites, or remove it when it is already a
favourite.
.TP
.B Drag an effect onto an FX chain row
Insert it into an empty chain entry or replace the effect in the destination
entry. The destination row is highlighted while dragging.
.TP
.B Drag a populated FX chain row onto another chain row
Move or swap the complete live FX entry, including its current entry state.
.PP
Favourites are ordered manually. Drag rows inside the Favourites list to
reorder them and press Delete or Backspace to remove the selected favourite.
The list is saved automatically in
\fI~/.veejay/reloaded-favourites.cfg\fR and restored at startup. Its Type
column identifies Image, Video, and Alpha effects.
.SS CHAIN ENTRIES
The chain view shows the entry number, effect, Run, Beat, Anim, source type,
source id, and Subrender state. Clicking the Run, Beat, Anim, or Subrender icon
changes that state for the clicked entry and selects the entry. Subrender
processes a mixing source through its own FX chain and automatically enables
the global source-FX master when required.
.PP
Shift-clicking a chain row toggles the selected effect entry. Ctrl-clicking a
chain row toggles its FX animation state. A normal click selects the entry and
loads its parameters and source controls.
.PP
Each selected effect exposes up to sixteen parameters, named p0 through p15
unless the effect supplies more specific names. Parameter sliders, increment
and decrement controls, RGB key controls, opacity controls, and mixing-source
controls are updated from backend status for the selected chain entry.
.PP
The chain panel can enable or disable effect processing for the current sample
or stream. Global chain controls copy the current chain to the Global FX chain
and select whether that global chain renders before or after the current
chain.
.PP
Beat-aware entries have a beat-control state. Auto FX modulates only eligible
parameters on entries whose beat control is enabled. Parameters owned by Auto
FX are identified in the parameter UI by beat-hint glyphs and coloured slider
indication.
.SS ALPHA AND MATTE CONTROLS
Alpha / Matte effects read, write, or transform the alpha plane. Reloaded can
show only those effects, preview the alpha channel, initialize alpha only when
an active effect needs it, choose transparent or opaque initial alpha, and use
the processed alpha mask for the chain fader instead of normal opacity. These
controls are separate from normal Alpha Blend effects and from mixing-source
Subrender.
.SH FX ANIMATION CURVE
The FX animation panel edits parameter animation curves for the selected FX
chain entry and selected parameter. It provides start and end positions,
linear, spline, and freehand modes, per-parameter enable/disable,
chain-entry enable/disable, predefined shape generation, and live preview
traces.
.PP
The selected FX parameter combo chooses the animated parameter. A special chain
opacity target may be edited without requiring a normal FX id. For normal FX
parameters, a valid selected chain entry and effect are required.
.PP
Start and end positions are frame numbers. If the end position is lower than
the start position, Reloaded stores the animation over the same inclusive range
with the endpoints swapped. If both positions are equal, nothing is stored.
.PP
The curve editor has two visible states. With no parameter selected, it shows
the live beat or FX overview. With a parameter selected, it edits that
parameter and shows the stored or previewed curve for the current entry.
.PP
Predefined shapes immediately switch the editor into freehand curve data and
mark the curve locally dirty. Shape generation uses the current sample or
stream range, the selected parameter's legal min/max range, bound-min and
bound-max, the Steps value, Seed, Detail, and Reverse. The generated preview is
local until it is stored.
.PP
Predefined shapes include No shape, Bounce, Burst Envelope, Cosine, Sine,
Damped Sine, Ease In, Ease Out, Exponential, Gaussian, Noise, Pulse, Ramp Drop,
Random Burst, Random Inertia, Random Mean, Random Quantized, Random Smooth,
Random Walk, Sawtooth, Shape Steps, Smooth, Smooth Noise, Square, and ZigZag.
.PP
The Steps control changes the number of shape repetitions or quantisation
steps, depending on the selected shape. The Seed control affects random and
noise-based shapes. The Detail control affects generated shape detail. The
Shuffle button tries new seeds and avoids visually identical random motifs
when possible.
.TP
.B Store
Serialises the visible curve over the inclusive frame range, clamps every
point to the selected parameter's legal min/max, sends the keyframe packet to
the backend, enables the parameter animation, and leaves the stored curve in
live-preview override mode.
.TP
.B Enable parameter
Enable or disable animation for the selected parameter on the selected entry.
This does not create a new curve by itself.
.TP
.B Enable entry
Enable or disable FX animation for the selected chain entry. The same state is
mirrored between the FX chain and FX animation controls.
.TP
.B Clear parameter
Clear only the selected parameter animation for the current keyframe entry.
.TP
.B Clear entry
Reset all keyframes for the selected FX entry and clear the separate chain
opacity animation target.
.PP
The curve widget shows frame, value, and timecode near the active marker. Live
traces can be shown as underlays or as the current live overview. User edits
and stored curves can override the live trace until a later backend refresh or
clear operation restores backend-authoritative display.
.SH AUDIO OUTPUT
Reloaded's audio controls are split into global default output, per-sample
overrides, JACK master level, and recording source. These are separate
concepts and should not be treated as one volume or route.
.PP
The global audio source selector chooses the default source used when the
current sample does not have its own saved audio route:
.TP
.B Original video audio
Use the audio track associated with the current sample or stream.
.TP
.B JACK external
Use JACK as the external audio provider. The JACK master volume control sends
the external master volume only while this source is selected.
.TP
.B WAV file
Use a configured WAV file as the external audio provider. WAV paths are stored
through the WAV profile controls described below.
.TP
.B Silence
Use no audible source. Silence cannot be analysed by the beat detector.
.PP
Selecting Original disables external playback and returns the sync mode to off.
Selecting JACK or WAV makes the external-provider controls relevant. Selecting
WAV also exposes the WAV path, loop, and profile controls.
.PP
The status area reports whether the active route is global, internal beat
analysis, an external JACK/WAV route, or a sample-specific route.
.SH AUDIO MIXING
The audio mixer chooses how Original audio and the external provider are heard
when the global default route is active. It is independent from per-sample
audio-route storage.
.TP
.B Follow
Follow the backend/default route. The manual route radio buttons are disabled
and the crossfade is inactive.
.TP
.B Original
Force Original audio for the audible route. The crossfade is set to 0.
.TP
.B External / JACK
Force the external provider for the audible route. The crossfade is set to
100. The label may refer to JACK even when the external-provider source is a
WAV profile, because both are handled as the external master route.
.TP
.B Original + External
Mix Original and the external provider. If the crossfade is still at an
endpoint, Reloaded moves it to 50 when this mode is selected.
.TP
.B Crossfade
Controls the Original/External blend only in Original + External mode. It is
inactive in Follow, Original, and External-only modes.
.PP
Mixer mode and crossfade are restored from backend status. Manual changes send
separate VIMS updates for mixer mode and, when needed, crossfade.
.SH WAV PROFILES AND PER-SAMPLE AUDIO ROUTES
Reloaded has four WAV profile slots. A profile stores a WAV path and whether
that WAV should loop. The path must be safe for VIMS transport; paths with the
VIMS command separator or control newlines are rejected.
.TP
.B WAV profile slot 1 .. 4
Store or clear a WAV path and loop flag. These slots are reusable global
profiles; they are also the selectable WAV sources for per-sample routes.
.TP
.B Sample source: Follow global/default
Clear the sample's own audio route. The sample then uses the global default
source.
.TP
.B Sample source: Original
Save an explicit original-audio override for the sample.
.TP
.B Sample source: WAV
Bind the sample to one of WAV profile slots 1 through 4. Slot 0 means no WAV
profile and cannot arm a WAV sample route.
.TP
.B Sample source: JACK
Bind the sample to JACK external audio.
.TP
.B Sample source: Silence
Bind the sample to silence from a stored frame anchor.
.PP
Per-sample external routes provide Queue/Monitor, Analyze External Tempo,
Clean Monitor, Monitor + Trickplay, Visual Tempo Follow, Tempo Match Bridge,
and Track Align. Queue/Monitor is the per-sample default and is not a separate
global Audio Sync mode.
.PP
Changing the per-sample source, WAV profile, or external mode immediately
updates and rearms the stored route while preserving the existing anchor when
possible.
.TP
.B Set Here
Store the selected route with the current video frame as its new switch
anchor. For WAV routes it also stores the selected WAV anchor in milliseconds.
.TP
.B Rearm
Re-send the selected sample route using its saved anchor. For WAV routes the
selected profile must be greater than 0.
.TP
.B Clear
Remove the sample-specific route and return the sample to Follow
global/default.
.PP
The status label reports routes such as Sample Original, WAV slot N with mode
and switch frame, JACK with mode and switch frame, or Silence with switch
frame.
.SH AUDIO BEAT DETECTOR
The Audio Beat Detector analyses the selected audio source and can drive visual
and transport actions. It analyses Original video audio when that source is
selected, or the selected JACK/WAV external provider when JACK or WAV is used.
Silence cannot be analysed.
.TP
.B Enable beat detector
Start or stop beat analysis. Enabling it may adjust sync controls to keep the
chosen source/action combination valid.
.TP
.B Action: none
Analyse without beat-driven transport or Auto FX action.
.TP
.B Action: auto FX
Drive beat-aware FX modulation only. This is the safe beat action for Original
video audio.
.TP
.B Action: break beat (Auto FX)
Use Break Beat transport/scratch behaviour and keep Auto FX modulation active.
This action requires JACK external or WAV input.
.TP
.B Action: break beat
Use Break Beat transport/scratch behaviour without Auto FX modulation. This
action requires JACK external or WAV input.
.TP
.B Input channels
Set the number of external input channels analysed when JACK is the selected
provider.
.TP
.B Threshold
Set the transient strength required to accept a beat or break-beat hit. The
label changes with the selected action.
.TP
.B Cooldown
Set the minimum time between accepted beat hits or break-beat turns.
.TP
.B Hold Window
Set the open/hold window used by Break Beat. It is inactive for Auto FX only.
.TP
.B Pulse
Set the short pulse envelope used by beat-aware FX and Break Beat scratch
emphasis.
.TP
.B Gate
Set the held gate or repeat-memory window used by beat-aware FX and Break Beat.
.TP
.B Auto FX mode
Choose off, primary, primary + motion, motion + memory, or chaos. Higher modes
select more motion, memory, and chaos-oriented beat-hint roles.
.TP
.B Auto FX amount
Set the global intensity of automatic beat-driven parameter modulation. Values
0 through 100 are the normal range. In Chaos mode, values 101 through 300
provide performance overdrive.
.TP
.B Scratch sensitivity
Set Break Beat scratch sensitivity.
.TP
.B Source-loss pause
Pause Break Beat response when the selected source is lost.
.TP
.B Monitor latency / Auto latency
Automatically estimate monitor latency for the JACK monitor path, or disable
auto latency and calibrate it manually. Manual latency is available only for
Break Beat actions.
.TP
.B Refresh
Request a fresh Audio Beat status print from the backend. This refreshes
analysis state reporting but does not rebuild Auto FX mapping.
.TP
.B Reset Auto FX
Forget the current automatic FX mapping. The next beat or update rebuilds the
Auto FX target set from the current effect chain.
.PP
Live beat values show level, envelope, transient, flux, bass, mid, high, gate,
pulse, estimated BPM, accepted hit count, age since last accepted hit, sample
rate, monotonic hit sequence, and monitor latency.
.SH AUTO FX
Auto FX maps the current chain using beat hints. Beat hints are role metadata
supplied by effects. The automatic mode determines how aggressively parameter
roles are selected. The automatic amount controls the global intensity of
beat-driven modulation.
.PP
Auto FX does not replace manual FX editing. It modulates eligible parameters on
beat-controlled entries while the underlying effect parameters remain visible
and manually adjustable.
.SH AUDIO SYNC
The Audio Sync panel controls external audio analysis, monitoring,
synchronisation, and per-sample route state. The external provider can be JACK
input or one of the configured WAV profile slots.
.PP
Audio sync modes include:
.TP
.B Off
Disable external audio synchronisation and return to the last non-external
master source where applicable.
.TP
.B Analyze External Tempo
Listen to the external provider only. This exports BPM, phase, and control
information without forcing external audio playback.
.TP
.B Clean Monitor
Play external audio unchanged as a monitor source.
.TP
.B Monitor + Trickplay
Make external audio follow transport behaviour such as pause, reverse, speed,
SFD, and rate changes.
.TP
.B Visual Tempo Follow
Drive video timing and beat-aware FX from the external tempo without stretching
the external audio.
.TP
.B Tempo Match Bridge
Stretch the external audio to match the target tempo and phase. Controls
include target BPM, phase, confidence, and maximum correction.
.TP
.B Track Align
Use waveform correlation to align the selected clip or video against the
external master track.
.PP
The source selector chooses JACK or WAV as the external provider source. WAV
mode uses the configured path, selected profile slot, and optional looping. The
status area shows enabled, open, running, mode, source, channel count, sample
rate, audible route, BPM, confidence, bridge activity, ratio, correction,
target BPM, target confidence, maximum correction, bridge state, track lock,
track offset, track confidence, track correction, track state, phase, level,
and transient information.
.PP
When a sample has its own audio route, the panel title and route labels change
to show that the sample route overrides the global default for that sample.
.SH RECORDING
Recording controls choose the audio source for disk recording, including
automatic, original audio, external JACK/WAV provider, or silence where
available. Sample and stream recording controls have separate source selectors.
.PP
Sequence recording records Play Grid output into a new sample. Start, stop,
and progress controls are placed in the recording row below the sequence
grids. Stopping the recording leaves Play Grid running until it is stopped
separately.
.SH MEDIA AND STREAM CREATION
The Media panel lists Veejay's working directory. Double-clicking a row adds it
as a sample.
.PP
The stream menu and input-stream dialog can create or open live input streams,
YUV4MPEG streams, FFmpeg/AVFormat streams, solid streams, generators, and
remote Veejay-to-Veejay network sources. The generator dialog exposes the
available generator list and generator parameters.
.SH VIDEO SETTINGS
The Video Settings dialog contains screenshot dimensions, preview scaling,
primary SDL video-window options, fullscreen settings, aspect-ratio controls,
window offsets, and video loopback settings.
.SH IMAGE CALIBRATION
The Image Calibration dialog captures dark, light, and flat frames for live
stream calibration. It can run calibration globally or per stream and provides
reset, capture, and save controls. Calibration requires a selected live stream.
.SH VIMS MESSENGER, HISTORY, BUNDLES, KEY BINDINGS, AND MACROS
The VIMS messenger sends raw VIMS commands directly to the backend. The VIMS
and Bundles dialog lists backend-advertised events and stored bundles.
Activating an ordinary event sends it with its configured arguments;
activating a bundle runs the stored command group. Bundles can be created,
edited, deleted, saved,
loaded, and reused. Saving a bundle file also includes its key bindings.
.PP
The messenger editor processes one command per non-empty line. During Play, a
line beginning with \fB+N\fR delays the next command by N update frames; the
script wraps to line zero at the end. Single sends the next command without
running the timed script, Rewind returns to line zero, and Clear empties the
editor.
.PP
When Reloaded is built with SDL keyboard support, the selected VIMS event can
be attached to a key and modifier combination, updated, or detached. Argument
text is checked against the event format before it is stored. Bindings are
reloaded from the backend and an assigned key press sends the stored VIMS
command.
.PP
The VIMS History is a local, pattern-safe command log of up to 512 entries. It
displays the VIMS id, a compact label, description, raw command, and repeat
count. It is ordered newest first. Double-click a row or press Enter to insert
it at the current Pattern cursor. Drag it to a visible Pattern cell for
explicit placement. Right-click to copy the raw command or clear the history;
the Clear button also removes all local history rows.
.PP
Macro controls can record, play, stop or reset VIMS-driven UI actions, delay
the start of recording, select and clear macro banks, clear all recorded
events, and refresh macro state. Start and stop actions report their state
through the status bar and console logs.
.SH MIDI
The MIDI menu enables MIDI learning, toggles MIDI support, clears the MIDI
layout, saves the MIDI layout, and loads an existing MIDI layout. Many UI
controls register their corresponding VIMS command when MIDI learning is
active.
.PP
MIDI-learned toggles use release-aware behaviour where supported, so note-off
or zero-value controller events do not accidentally retrigger one-shot toggle
actions.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I gveejay.reloaded.glade
GTK3 Glade UI definition loaded at startup.
.TP
.I gveejay.reloaded.css
Default Reloaded stylesheet.
.TP
.I ~/.veejay/reloaded-favourites.cfg
Automatically maintained ordered FX Favourites list.
.TP
.I MIDI layout files
User-saved MIDI mappings loaded or saved from the MIDI menu or command line.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start Reloaded and auto-connect to a local Veejay server:
.B gveejay-reloaded --auto-connect
.TP
Connect to a remote server on a custom port:
.B gveejay-reloaded --host 192.168.1.20 --port 3490
.TP
Start with quarter-size preview and a small UI:
.B gveejay-reloaded --preview 3 --small-as-possible
.TP
Use the system GTK theme instead of Reloaded's CSS:
.B gveejay-reloaded --theme system
.TP
Use a custom CSS file and load a MIDI layout:
.B gveejay-reloaded --theme ./dark-live.css --midi ./layout.xml
.TP
Start with 24 sample-bank pages:
.B gveejay-reloaded --sample-pages 24
.SH BUGS
Report bugs through the Veejay issue tracker. When reporting UI bugs, include
the Reloaded version, GTK version, backend version, the selected play mode,
whether the selected item is a sample or stream, the selected sequence bank
and slot, Play Grid and Wait End state, any queued bank, the Pattern target,
Step, learning policy and paste mode, the active audio source, the selected
audio-sync or beat action if relevant, whether a sample-specific audio route is
active, the raw VIMS command when relevant, and any status-bar or console
messages printed after the action.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR veejay (1),
.BR jackd (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Gveejay Reloaded was written by Niels Elburg and contributors. GTK3 migration
and other work by Jerome Blanchi. Initial sampledeck representation by Thomas
Rheinhold. See the project source files for the full copyright notices.
