.TH EIDOLON 1 "July 2026" "VeeJay" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
Eidolon \- autonomous Auto-VJ organism for VeeJay/VIMS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY eidolon
.OP \-h host
.OP \-p port
.OP \-g group
.OP \-s file
.OP \-l
.OP \-R
.OP \-n
.OP \-F frames
.OP \-U command
.OP \-X
.OP \-c chaos
.OP \-t ms
.OP \-M count
.OP \-m count
.OP \-r ms
.OP \-q
.OP \-T
.OP \-v
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B eidolon
connects to a running VeeJay instance and controls an FX chain through VIMS.
It behaves like a small autonomous performer: it creates or reuses samples,
builds FX chains, mutates parameters, enables beat control, and learns from
status tokens and explicit user feedback.
.PP
The default interface is a plain terminal command shell.  Eidolon is quiet by
default: it prints one response per command and does not flood the terminal
with per-entry or per-tick changes.  Use
.B verbose on
or the
.B \-v
option when automatic debug logs are wanted.
.PP
Eidolon persists its fuzzy mind to a state file.  The state contains chain
bounds, population state, learned FX weights, realtime cost pressure, immune
memory, and other behaviour settings.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-h " host"
Connect to VeeJay at
.IR host .
The default is
.BR localhost .
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Connect to VeeJay VIMS port
.IR port .
The default is
.BR 3490 .
.TP
.BI \-g " group"
Set multicast group or group name.
.TP
.BI \-s " file"
Use
.I file
as mind state file.  The default is
.BR autovj.life .
.TP
.B \-l
Load the state file at startup.  This is the default behaviour.
.TP
.B \-R
Fresh start.  Ignore the previous mind state.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not create random samples.  Use the current VeeJay sample or stream.
.TP
.BI \-F " frames"
Set source frame count used for random sample creation.  The default is
.BR 25000 .
.TP
.BI \-U " command"
Set fallback event/capability dump command.  The default is
.BR "veejay -u" .
Using this option enables live FX sync.
.TP
.B \-X
Disable startup live VIMS effect-list sync.
.TP
.BI \-c " chaos"
Set initial chaos amount, from
.B 0
through
.BR 1 .
The default is
.BR 0.72 .
Higher values produce more violent motion and mutation.
.TP
.BI \-t " ms"
Set organism tick interval in milliseconds.  The default is
.BR 250 .
.TP
.BI \-M " count"
Set minimum FX chain length.  Valid values are
.B 0
through
.BR 19 .
A value of
.B 0
means the organism may enter a clear/off survival state.
.TP
.BI \-m " count"
Set maximum FX chain length.  Valid values are
.B 0
through
.BR 19 .
The default maximum is
.BR 6 .
.TP
.BI \-r " ms"
Set reconnect retry delay in milliseconds.  The default is
.BR 1000 .
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet shell mode.  Suppress the normal interactive prompt/logs.
.TP
.B \-T
Accepted for compatibility and ignored.  Eidolon is terminal-only.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose automatic logs and VIMS output.
.SH INTERACTIVE SHELL
After startup, Eidolon prints:
.PP
.EX
eidolon: ready. Type help. SIGUSR1 saves.
eidolon[0/live]>
.EE
.PP
Type
.B help
to show the command list.  Commands are grouped by purpose.
.SH SHELL COMMANDS
.TP
.B help
Show command help.
.TP
.B terminal
Confirm plain command-shell mode.  Eidolon no longer has a split terminal UI.
Use normal terminal scrollback.
.TP
.BI verbose " on|off"
Enable or disable automatic debug logs.
.TP
.B quit
Save state and exit.
.SH INSPECTION COMMANDS
.TP
.B status
Print a one-line organism summary.
.TP
.B chain
Print the current FX chain entries, including learned cost/immune pressure when
available.
.TP
.B roles
Print the chain grammar and category table.
.TP
.BI brain " on|off|status|replay|clear"
Control or inspect the neural status-token preference learner.
.SH ORGANISM COMMANDS
.TP
.B pause
Pause the organism.
.TP
.B go
Resume the organism.
.TP
.B rebuild
Rebuild the current organism chain.
.TP
.B mutate
Soft-mutate the current organism.
.TP
.B hard
Hard-mutate the current organism.
.TP
.B like
Teach a positive preference for the current organism.
.TP
.B love
Teach a strong positive preference for the current organism.
.TP
.B hate
Teach a negative preference and mutate away from the current organism.
.TP
.B kill
Strongly reject the current organism and mutate away.
.TP
.BI chaos " n"
Set chaos from
.B 0
through
.BR 1 .
.TP
.BI tempo " ms"
Set engine tick interval.
.TP
.BI scene " ticks"
Set scene length in organism ticks.
.TP
.BI life " seconds"
Set FX lifetime in seconds.
.TP
.BI budget " n"
Set manual preset send budget.
.SH CHAIN SIZE COMMANDS
.TP
.BI minchain " n"
Set minimum controlled FX entries.
.TP
.BI maxchain " n"
Set maximum controlled FX entries.
.TP
.BI morefx " [n]"
Raise the minimum controlled FX count by
.I n
or by one when omitted.
.TP
.BI lessfx " [n]"
Lower the minimum controlled FX count by
.I n
or by one when omitted.
.TP
.BI fxcount " n"
Force an exact FX count.  A count of
.B 0
means clear/off.
.TP
.BI fxrange " a b"
Set the controlled FX range.  A lower bound of
.B 0
allows survival hibernation.
.TP
.B fullchain
Force all 19 FX entries and rebuild immediately.
.TP
.B chain on
Reassert the current sample chain and entries.
.SH REALTIME GOVERNOR COMMANDS
Eidolon reads the VeeJay status packet and uses measured FPS as its survival
sensor.  Token
.B 0
is treated as
.B real_fps
and token
.B 18
as target/current FPS.  At 25 FPS, the frame budget is about 40 ms per frame.
.TP
.B rt status
Show realtime governor state.
.TP
.B rt auto
Enable adaptive realtime chain bounds.
.TP
.B rt off
Disable the realtime governor.
.TP
.B rt lock
Lock current user chain bounds.
.TP
.B rt unlock
Allow Eidolon to adapt the chain bounds again.
.TP
.B rt fps
Show measured FPS, target FPS, and frame budget.
.TP
.BI rt " chainon n"
Inspect or set the chain-on status helper token.
.TP
.BI rt " target ratio"
Set the realtime survival target ratio.
.TP
.BI rt " clearlearn strict|selected|off"
Choose how Eidolon learns rejection from external chain changes.
.B strict
uses chain enabled/disabled status and is the default.
.B selected
also treats an empty selected entry as rejection.
.B off
disables this learning path.
.SH BEAT AND AUTO-FX COMMANDS
.TP
.BI amount " n"
Set beat Auto-FX amount, 0 through 100.
.TP
.BI beatmode " n"
Set beat mode:
.B 0
off,
.B 1
primary,
.B 2
primary plus motion,
.B 3
plus memory,
.B 4
chaos.
.TP
.BI action " n"
Set beat action:
.B 0
none,
.B 2
Auto-FX,
.B 3
breakbeat plus Auto-FX,
.B 4
breakbeat.
.SH EXPLORATION COMMANDS
.TP
.BI explore " off|[sec [len [n]]]"
Disable exploration, or rebuild random FX chains every
.I sec
seconds.  The interval may be fractional, for example
.BR 0.25 .
.TP
.BI combos " [sec [len [n]]]"
Try
.I n
random chains.  Defaults to eight combinations, eight seconds apart.
.TP
.BI try19 " [sec [n]]"
Try full 19-entry chains, for example
.BR "try19 0.25" .
.TP
.BI fxpace " min max"
Set FX-entry lifetime in seconds.
.TP
.BI parampace " seconds"
Set parameter-preset lifetime in seconds.
.SH SOURCES AND ROUTING COMMANDS
.TP
.B fxsync
Refresh the live FX list through VIMS 401.
.TP
.BI push " [next|+n|n|port|host:port] [sample-id]"
Copy the current chain to another VeeJay instance.
.TP
.BI mix " sample|stream id"
Set source/channel for extra-frame mixer FX.
.TP
.B sample
Create and play a new random sample.
.TP
.BI samples " off|on frames"
Disable or enable sample creation and set source frame count.
.SH SAFETY AND TRICK COMMANDS
.TP
.BI safe " on|off"
Keep structural and reset parameters protected from unsafe mutation.
.TP
.BI trick " loop|stutter|scratch|freeze|jump|release|on|off"
Control sample trickplay behaviour.
.SH EVOLUTION POOL COMMANDS
.TP
.BI ban " fxid"
Remove an FX from the evolution pool.
.TP
.BI unban " fxid"
Restore an FX to the evolution pool.
.SH STATE AND RAW VIMS COMMANDS
.TP
.BI save " [file]"
Persist the fuzzy mind.  When
.I file
is omitted, the configured state path is used.
.TP
.BI load " [file]"
Restore the fuzzy mind.  When
.I file
is omitted, the configured state path is used.
.TP
.BI raw " vims"
Send raw VIMS to the connected VeeJay instance, for example:
.PP
.EX
raw 600:;
.EE
.SH LEARNING MODEL
Eidolon learns from several signals:
.PP
.B like
and
.B love
increase preference for the current organism.
.B hate
and
.B kill
create negative feedback and immune memory.
When clear-learning is enabled, externally disabling or clearing the chain can
also be treated as rejection.
.PP
The realtime governor treats low
.B real_fps
as metabolic pressure.  Expensive active FX accumulate cost pressure and become
less likely in future chains.  Stable realtime performance slowly decays cost
and immune pressure.
.SH ZERO-FX SURVIVAL
When adaptive realtime mode is unlocked, Eidolon may shrink down to zero FX.
This is a survival hibernation state: the chain is cleared/off rather than a
broken organism.  When realtime headroom returns, Eidolon may grow back to one
or more FX.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B autovj.life
Default mind state file.
.TP
.BI file .tmp
Temporary state file used while saving.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Save the current mind state.
.TP
.B SIGINT, SIGTERM
Stop, save state, and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Connect to the default local VeeJay instance:
.PP
.EX
eidolon
.EE
.PP
Start fresh and do not create samples:
.PP
.EX
eidolon -R -n
.EE
.PP
Limit the organism to a small realtime-safe range:
.PP
.EX
eidolon -M 1 -m 4
.EE
.PP
Allow full adaptive hibernation while running:
.PP
.EX
rt unlock
fxrange 0 6
.EE
.PP
Inspect the current chain and realtime governor:
.PP
.EX
status
chain
rt status
rt fps
.EE
.PP
Teach Eidolon during a performance:
.PP
.EX
like
hate
love
kill
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit.
.TP
.B 1
Startup, option, connection, or state handling error.
.SH NOTES
Eidolon speaks VIMS and assumes a compatible running VeeJay instance.  It is an
experimental autonomous performer; use smaller chain ranges for live-critical
sets until the local machine's realtime behaviour is known.
