.TH "rawdv2yuv" 1
.SH NAME
rawdv2yuv decodes a rawdv stream from stdin to yuv I420/YV12 and
writes it to stdout.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rawdv2yuv [options] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rawdv2yuv
rawdv2yuv is a simple I420/YV12 encoder that has some additional
parameters to produce a half sized I420/YV12 frame. The motivation
for this option is to be able to quickly downscale a full PAL/NTSC
frame. 

This program expects input from STDIN and writes a Y4M stream
to STDOUT. 

.SH OPTIONS
The command line options allow to specify its behaviour
.TP
.B \-x
Swap cb/cr channels to produce IV12 (default is I420)
.TP
.B \-n [01]
Norm to use for rawdv input, 0 = NTSC , 1 = PAL (default is PAL)
.TP
.B \-h 
Output half sized YV12/I420 frame (default is no downscaling)
.TP
.B \-c <num>
Clip width by a multiple of 8  
.TP
.B \-q 
Set rawdv quality to FASTEST (monochrome). Default is BEST.
.TP
.B \-v [012]
Try to be silent or verbose
.SH USEFULL EXAMPLES
.TP
.B dvgrab --format rawdv - |rawdv2yuv -h -c 8 | yuvplay
This commands grabs rawdv and pipes it trough rawdv2yuv
to produce a 352x288 y4m stream. Full PAL is 720x576, 
the -h option produces 360x288 and -c clips off 8 pixels
from the frame width.
.TP
.B cat rawdv_file.dv | rawdv2yuv -n 1 > i420_stream.y4m
Converts a NTSC rawdv file to a 720x480 y4m frame (I420)
.SH BUGS
see BUGS in the source package
.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Niels Elburg.
If you have questions, remarks or you just want to
contact the developers, the main mailing list for this
project is: 
.I veejay-users@lists.sourceforge.net
For more info see the website at
.I http://veejay.sourceforge.net
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B veejay yuv2rawdv rawdv2yuv sendVIMS
